[breathes heavily]
Ahh, you're
finally awake, I see.
You nearly slept straight
through the sunset.
What's going on?
Satoko.
You looked so
restless as you slept.
I can hardly imagine the
nightmares you were having.
[SATOKO]
And your fever is awful.
Please, let me take care of you.
I'll stay here by your side.
I won't leave
till you're well again.
Satoko.
[sobs]
Poor, suffering girl.
Please, someone,
help me understand it.
Why is this happening?
What did I do?
[SATOKO] I can't know
what you saw in your dreams.
But whatever it was,
you know it meant something.
Huh?
[SATOKO] There's a reason you
have the dreams you do, Rika.
A reason that's
very close to your heart.
[gasps]
Reason? There is no reason.
There's nothing that
could justify this pain.
Tell me, why do
I have to suffer?
[SATOKO]
Think.
Do you genuinely not understand
why these awful
dreams haunt you?
[gasps]
Satoko. What are you saying?
[grunts]
It hurts everywhere.
They don't stop.
They won't allow you
a single night's rest.
Can you really not see
why they're so relentless?
[RIKA]
What's happening?
Rika, this is
the work of the curse.
What does that mean?
What curse? I don't‐‐
What is this?
I can't feel my legs.
Can't move. Please, Satoko.
[SATOKO]
Ohh...
Let me show you.
[gasps]
[screams]
That's right, Rika.
Watanagashi is here.
Uh, Watanagashi?
[SATOKO] You know the
purpose of this ritual.
This is how we quell
Lord Oyashiro's rage.
That way, he might
lift the curse.
You keep saying...
[grunts]
...that this is
the curse, but why?
[SATOKO]
Oh, dear.
It appears the anesthetic
has fully worn off.
We can fix that.
Thankfully, we still
have one more dose.
I would never want
to make you suffer, Rika.
Don't do this!
[SATOKO] It's okay.
I'm quite experienced.
Coach has me do my own
injections every day.
You can trust me.
The pain's going
away now, isn't it?
Please, tell me.
You're saying these nightmares
are a result of
Lord Oyashiro's curse?
What does that mean?
You see.
Lord Oyashiro revealed
something to me.
Revealed what?
[SATOKO] He revealed to me
that you're no longer fit
to fulfill your duty
as his priestess.
And therefore...
[gasps]
[SATOKO] ...he ordained me
to serve him in your place.
I am his priestess now.
[RIKA]
Satoko!
You didn't receive
Lord Oyashiro's revelation!
It wasn't real. You're sick!
You just imagined it!
[SATOKO]
Rika.
I would like you to watch me
perform the offertory dance.
You must confront the truth.
It's not through
chance or divine whim
that you're plagued
by these nightmares.
Please. Satoko. Stop this!
[SATOKO]
You gravely sinned.
And you will suffer forevermore.
[cries out]
Please stop this.
Tell me, what's my sin?
I don't understand!
Why do I have
to suffer like this?
I didn't do anything
to deserve it!
No, Rika. You did.
Even as he had ordained you
to be his servant on earth,
you violated his precepts.
When was that?
I can't...
[SATOKO] Over and over,
for years upon years,
every waking moment, Rika.
You've performed
your duties without faith.
Lord Oyashiro can
see deep into your heart,
and he knows that in your soul
you've abandoned Hinamizawa!
What?
Even during his offertory dance,
his chosen servant longed
to escape his embrace!
[RIKA]
Yes.
When I was first caught in 1983.
When I was repeating it
hundreds upon hundreds of times.
I was stuck living
the life of a captured bird.
And Hinamizawa Village
was my cage.
Of course I longed to be free.
It was all I wanted. And then...
Jiro, please. Please help me!
[sobs]
[TOMITAKE]
Sorry I'm late.
It's all over now.
[RIKA]
After my century of tragedy,
we were finally able
to break the cycle.
For a long time now,
there's a certain something
I've secretly been
dreaming of doing.
That was when I decided
I would leave Hinamizawa.
[laughs]
I've seen the way the syndrome
can twist people's minds.
I've heard it wring madness
from their mouths over and over.
But never the plain truth,
until now.
[SATOKO] If I want
to cleanse you of your sin,
I have to carry out
this sacrament.
I'm sorry.
I never wanted it
to come down to this.
But it had to!
I have no choice.
I'll take your place
in performing the
Watanagashi ritual!
Tell me. Why, Rika?
Why would you betray Lord
Oyashiro in your thoughts?
If you'd kept the faith.
If your heart had
stayed in Hinamizawa...
[SATOKO] ...you would
never have angered him.
The curse would
never have befallen you!
If my heart had stayed...
You made this happen.
All of it.
These are the
wages of your sins.
Your life and
all our friends' lives,
and now‐‐they're paid!
I see.
I had chosen to make
this life my last one.
But by the time I arrived,
this world was already doomed.
[SATOKO]
This is your fault!
Are you not the rebirth
of Lord Oyashiro himself?
So tell me why!
[SATOKO sobs]
[grunting]
Tell me why. Tell me why!
Why would you violate
his precepts like that?!
It's your fault!
I would never have had
to do all these awful things
if you hadn't angered
Lord Oyashiro!
Were you not thinking
about Keiichi?
Or Rena, or Mion, or Shion?
Were all of them not enough
to make you stay here?
Rika!
[SATOKO]
I thought you loved Hinamizawa.
That you cared for it
as much as me.
What made you want to
leave it behind so badly?
What about everybody
else you grew up with?
[SATOKO] The kids at
school are your friends,
and the people in
the village are so kind.
All of them.
They've always
cared for you, right?
So, please. Please.
Tell me why you would
abandon us like that!
It's not just hurting
Lord Oyashiro.
It's hurting me!
The days we've shared in
Hinamizawa are precious to me.
To think you could
just toss them aside.
It hurts, Rika, so much!
[RIKA]
What was it?
What made me start
to hate Hinamizawa?
[RIKA]
The answer to that is simple.
Hinamizawa was my prison.
Of course. That's why.
And so, as soon as
I'd broken the cycle.
I had to leave.
I wanted a glamorous
life at a fancy school.
My quaint hometown
had gotten stale.
Was it wrong of me
to feel that way?
A century.
A hundred years I lived there.
Looking now,
was there anything about
Hinamizawa that I didn't like?
There was never a
single bad thing about it.
All the tragedies
I suffered through.
All the mysterious murders.
They arose from people's
plans gone astray,
or their emotions clashing.
On some days,
I would laugh too hard
to feel time going by,
and on others, I would lie on
the floor sobbing in despair,
and time would
seem to sit still.
But every day,
I could feel the
warm embrace of Hinamizawa.
And after a century,
the painful days stopped,
and there were only good days.
I could feel
the village smiling,
knowing I could stay
here without suffering,
but I...
I... I still... I resented it.
My "quaint hometown"!
I've been so foolish.
[SATOKO]
This is a curse.
This is your curse.
Forgive me.
I know that I was wrong.
Huh? Rika?
I'm so sorry.
Satoko, I never
meant to hurt you,
but I drove you to this.
[SATOKO]
All I want is to live here
in Hinamizawa
together with you, Rika.
I would never
need anything else.
Please, forgive me.
I forgive you,
and since you repented,
I know that Lord Oyashiro
can forgive you too.
Good.
I'll get things right next time.
Ah. We're finally awake, are we?
Satoko?
Not a moment too soon either.
What a waste it
would be to sleep through
such a nice day like this.
[RIKA]
Hold on. Where are we?
So, not quite awake, I see.
We're here in
Hinamizawa, obviously!
Mion had a brilliant idea.
[KEIICHI]
Oh, hey, Rika!
You awake now?
Rika, Satoko! Come jump in!
Now we can finally
start the real game!
That real game
being a club activity.
I hope you runts are
ready for some bloodshed.
There wouldn't have been any
if you hadn't tried to catch
that ball with your face, dear.
[MION]
Hey! Don't tell them that!
[laughter]
[KEIICHI]
She's right though.
[MION] Can you please
lay off for one day, Shion?
[KEIICHI]
What's the hold‐up?
You scared or something?
That's quite the
tone you're taking.
I don't believe you
fully understand exactly
what I'm capable
of yet, dear Keiichi.
[SATOKO chortles]
I'm sure you'll figure it
out in due time,
perhaps just as one of my traps
pulls you into
the watery depths.
[RIKA]
Satoko?
Is something wrong?
Not really,
but can I talk to you?
My bad, Satoko!
[SATOKO]
The nerve of that boy!
I hate to be rude, Rika,
but it'll have to wait.
Right now there's an enemy
before me who must be destroyed!
[RIKA]
Mm.
Okay, I'm with you!
Our poor, foolish friend
Keiichi's decided
to start a war
that he can't win.
Mii! Sorry for the wait!
Awooo! Rika!
You're too adorable
in that swimsuit!
I wanna take you home!
Come on.
Satoko is at least as cute!
Please get your hands off of me!
But the compliment
was very nice,
so do keep that up.
Awoo! They're both so cute!
I just wanna take
both of 'em home
with me right now!
Enough. Get it together, kids!
This is an
official club activity,
so there's a
penalty on the line!
[laughter]
[SHION]
Oh goodness.
[SATOKO] Wasn't that
such a fun day, Rika?
Yes, almost too much
fun for me to handle.
Uh. You said you
needed to talk to me
about something before.
What was it?
[RIKA]
You honestly may not be able
to make sense
of what I'm saying.
If you can't, I would at least
like you to hear it all.
You see.
There were these
two dreams I had before,
that both seemed years long.
The first one felt like pure
torture as I was dreaming it.
But when I remember
that dream now.
All the wonderous
moments come back to me.
And in the second.
I let all those
wonders pass me by.
I chased my selfish desires
and I suffered for it.
[SATOKO]
It never seemed to end.
But I got through it,
and it made me realize something
I should have already known.
Satoko.
I love this village
more than anything!
Hinamizawa is a beautiful place,
and I get to share it
with all my wonderful friends.
But I was a fool.
For some reason,
I thought I wanted to leave.
Rika.
I can hardly guess
what kind of things
you've seen in your dreams,
but whatever may happen,
I am always going
to be your friend.
Always.
The whole village loves you.
We all do, and we always will.
[SATOKO]
It's over.
You're not gonna have
any more nightmares, okay?
[RIKA]
Satoko!
This world is at peace.
Lord Oyashiro's curse
isn't even thought of.
Like it's vanished.
Without a trace.
Ahhh!
Thank you so much Keiichi!
Hey, it was
the least I could do!
[RENA]
I got my very own Kenta‐kun.
He's the cutest ever!
[RIKA] Keiichi and Rena‐‐never
become consumed by paranoia.
[SATOKO]
What's wrong?
Oh, I just got distracted
thinking about dinner.
Ni‐paa!
[SATOKO] It's shocking how
much you think about food.
Let's hurry home
and get started then.
[RIKA] Satoko's vicious uncle
never returns to the house.
[RIKA]
Keiichi and Shion stay
and watch the ceremonial
dance to the end.
[RIKA] There's no need for me to
cast the dice in this world.
It's perfect.
[RIKA] And the cruel fate
that's been demanding my death
for so many years.
[RIKA]
At long last, I might be free.
Tomitake!
That you, Rika?
[RIKA] Yes. I have something
I need to tell you about me...
...and Takano.
Huh?
Takano?
[TAKANO]
Excellent timing!
Actually,
I had been hoping we
could have a talk as well.
[TAKANO]
Would now be okay?
[RIKA] Next time:
Nekodamashi‐hen, Part Four.